# Internationalization

Steps to Internationalization

1. Set up the fields
2. Set up the languages
3. Generate the migrations
4. That's it!

## Set up the fields

Open config/i18n_fields.yml, you'll see a file that looks like this:

  tables:
    events:
      - title
      - location
      - description
    
    galleries:
      - title
    
    pages:
      - title
      - content
      - slug
      - path
      - seo_title
      - seo_keywords
      - seo_description

Add any more tables and fields that you may want.

## Set up the languages

Open config/settings.yml, towards the top you'll see a commented out languages section

  # languages: 
  #   french: fr
  #   german: de

Uncomment this and add any other languages you may want, following the same format.  Note that you do not have to specify
English, since English is the assumed default.  (We recognize this is very Anglocentric, but admittedly, we are all
Anglophones.)

## Generate the migrations

Run

  bundle exec rails generate forge:i18n_migrations

This will generate a migration to add columns for the fields and languages that you've selected in those YAML files.
Like so:

  class AddI18nFields0735c9d56bba0c3ba8c8e45b5dcdb8ba < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def change
      add_column :sales, :title_fr, :string
      add_column :sales, :title_de, :string
      add_column :sales, :description_fr, :text
      add_column :sales, :description_de, :text
      add_column :product_categories, :title_fr, :string
      add_column :product_categories, :title_de, :string
      ...
    end
  end

If you add other languages or fields to your config files you can run the generator again, it will only attempt to add
fields that don't already exist.

### Additional Notes

The form builders have been changed considerably to ensure that you don't have to do a damn thing in the actual template
code to get this to work.  The generators have been updated to reflect this.  Let's look at some before and after examples:

Before:

  = form_for [:forge, @thing] do |f|
    = title_row("Title", :explanation => "Give it a title") { f.text_field :title, :class => "title" }
    = side_row("A Special Thing", :explanation => "You know, a thing.") { f.text_field :a_thing }
    = content_row("Do your content") { f.cktext_area :content, :your => "options" }

After:

  = form_for [:forge, @thing], :builder => ForgeFormBuilder do |f|
    = f.title_field :title, :explanation => "Give your thing a title"
    = f.text_field :a_thing, :label => "A Special Thing", :explanation => "You know, a thing."
    = f.cktext_area :content, :label => "Do your content", :your => "options"

If you need the original text_field, cktext_area, or text_area helper you can still call them with f.super_text_field,
f.super_text_area, or f.super_cktext_area

If you don't want an <hr> to be included with your form field, pass it the option :last => true
